---
sidebar_position: 9
---

# Enable MetaMask Snap

## Overview

The groundbreaking **MetaMask Snap** feature allows you to seamlessly integrate your test Ethereum addresses generated by the Warden Protocol directly into **MetaMask Flask**. With this feature, you can effortlessly connect with your MetaMask Flask wallet on any of your favorite EVM dApps.

:::note
The Warden Protocol is in the testnet phase, so you have to use MetaMask Flask. Once the final version is released, you'll be able to use the standard orange MetaMask extension. We'll need to be whitelisted to have it in the original MetaMask, pending security audit.
:::


## Prerequisites

👉 [Install MetaMask Flask](https://docs.metamask.io/snaps/get-started/install-flask/) – the developer version of MetaMask.
   
:::warning
- Deactivate the standard orange MetaMask extension to prevent conflicts with MetaMask Flask.
- Don't store real assets or your current seed phrase in MetaMask Flask. Remember, this is a developer version.
:::

## Integrate

1. Connect to [SpaceWard](https://spaceward.buenavista.wardenprotocol.org). If it's your first time, see the [Quick start guide](buenavista-quick-start).
2. On the right panel, click the MetaMask logo and then **Install Snap**.
3. When your MetaMask Flask wallet opens, accept the installation prompt.
4. In the left menu, navigate to **Keys**.
5. Select the preferred key and click **Add to MetaMask**.
6. Confirm in MetaMask Flask.

## Result

Congratulations! You've successfully integrated SpaceWard with MetaMask Flask. You'll be able to see your address in your MetaMask Flask wallet, tagged as **Warden Protocol**.

:::warning
Exercise caution and refrain from using real assets at this stage. Safety first!
:::

## Video tutorial

<iframe width="100%" height="444" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/sTH6okVKvss?si=yTZns9n0r_3ZXdav" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>