# ADR 001: Keychain Slashing and Locking mechanism

## Changelog

* 2024-03-26: Initial draft (@pitasi)

## Status

DRAFT

## Abstract

Introduce a "lock" mechanism for Keychains, similar to the staking delegations,
where a Keychain can lock some funds as a collateral. If the Keychain is
slashed, part of the collateral is burned.

## Context

Keychain are custodians of user's private keys.

A Keychain can be victim of a security breach or could just go rogue and steal
all users' funds.

How can a user decide what Keychain to trust?

How can we disincentivize bad behaviors from Keychain operators?

We propose a locking mechanism for Keychains, similar to the staking
delegations, where users can lock some funds as a collateral to a Keychain.
This ADR doesn't describe if there are incentives for locking funds, but it
could be a possibility.

If the Keychain is slashed for bad behaviors, part of the collateral is
burned.

Bad behaviors can be automatically identified by the protocol (e.g. signature
requests are not being signed) or by governance (e.g. a user reports a Keychain
for stealing funds).

## Alternatives

We have considered the following alternatives:

### No slashing mechanism

We could have a Keychain without a slashing mechanism. This would make it
easier for bad actors to become Keychain operators, as there are no
consequences for their actions.

However, we'll encourage the dMultiSig approach, where an address is composed
by a threshold of multiple Keychains. This would make it harder for a single
Keychain to steal all funds, as it would need to collude with other Keychains.

### Backwards Compatibility

- It's supposed that keychain-sdk will remain the same, as the locking mechanism is
  implemented on the protocol level.

### Positive

- Users have a metric to use for deciding how much to trust a Keychain, as they
  have a collateral to lose if they misbehave.

### Neutral

- The barrier to become a Keychain operator is higher, as the operator needs to
  lock some funds as a collateral. This could be seen as a positive consequence,
  as it would prevent bad actors from becoming Keychain operators.

## Further Discussions

- Should we incentivize users to lock funds to Keychains? In a similar way to
  staking delegations, where users receive rewards for locking funds. The
  reward would come from the commissions that the Keychain receives for
  signing.
- Should there be a minimum amount of funds that a Keychain can lock? This
  would prevent users from locking a very small amount of funds, which would
  make the slashing mechanism less effective. Alternatively, the users can
  decide to NOT trust a Keychain that locks a small amount of funds.

## References

* https://github.com/warden-protocol/wardenprotocol/issues/26
