---
sidebar_position: 1
id: home-doc
slug: /
---

# Introduction to Warden

## Warden Protocol

The **Warden Protocol** is a Layer 1 blockchain bringing AI to Web3 and enabling any application, protocol, or smart contract to integrate **safe AI**.

Mass adoption of Web3 requires the creation of safe and seamless AI experiences, and Warden empowers developers to achieve this goal.

## Warden AI Agents

A **Warden AI Agent** is an AI-driven program that supports both offchain and onchain operations. Thanks to their native integration with Warden Protocol, Warden Agents can perform various onchain [Actions](/learn/glossary#action). You can easily build Agents with the [Warden Agent Kit](/category/warden-agent-kit).

Within Warden, AI is integrated on the verification and execution layers. Our verification layer uses blockchain, cryptography, and consensus to verify AI results are correct. On the execution layer, you can easily integrate AI with your application, protocols, and smart contracts, automating their execution across any chain.

Warden allows inference endpoints to create cryptographic proofs that verify that an AI model produced a specific output. These proofs are then verified on Wardens’ blockchain through a new consensus mechanism, ensuring AI outputs are not just delivered, but can be trusted.

AI integration is ensured by three key components:

- [The `x/async` module](/learn/warden-protocol-modules/x-async) with [AVR Plugins](/learn/glossary#avr-plugin)
- [SPEX (statistical proof of execution)](/learn/warden-protocol-modules/x-async#spex)
- [Orders](/learn/glossary#order)


## SPEX

**Statistical Proof of Execution (SPEX)** is a sampling-based verifiable computing protocol that ensures the integrity of computational tasks through probabilistic guarantees. This includes tasks with potentially non-deterministic outputs, such as those involving large language models (LLMs) or stochastic training pipelines.

SPEX is used as a verifiability layer for AI on Warden Protocol. At the moment, SPEX verifies AI-driven price predictions generated by the [`x/async` module](/learn/warden-protocol-modules/x-async). However, you can extend the module with other computational tasks and use SPEX to protect them.

To learn more, see [SPEX](/learn/warden-protocol-modules/x-async#spex).

## Key protocol features

Warden's key features allow creating a truly open AI experience:

- **AI-ready**  
Warden allows you to easily [build AI Agents](/build-an-agent/introduction) and enjoy novel AI-driven Web3 experiences.

- **Simplified cryptography**  
With Warden, you can easily develop Web3 applications with [Intent-driven](/learn/glossary#intent) key management.

- **Abstracted interoperability**  
Build applications that allow aggregating multiple accounts for different chains and signing transactions at any destination chain.

## Protocol layers

Warden is an AI-ready protocol with three layers:

- **Blockchain layer**  
Warden lets users access responses from [Asynchronous Verifiable Resources](/learn/glossary#avr-plugin) (AVR Plugins) onchain. AVRs are a universal and standard way for smart contracts to access any resource or operate offchain systems. Users can also build, publish, and monetize their AVRs. The blockchain level acts as a coordination, messaging, and provenance layer AVR creators.

- **Verifiability layer**  
Warden's verifiability layer acts like a firewall that uses cryptography to verify AVR responses. [Statistical Proof of Execution](#spex) (SPEX) ensures the model you see is the model you get, and in addition it can check if the outputs are accurate and confident enough to be used in applications.

- **Application layer**  
Warden's developer platform features two smart contract platforms: [EVM and CosmWasm](/build-an-app/introduction#smart-contracts). Application builders can create AVRs and use them to build the logic of their applications. Warden also provides custom infrastructure for AI-specific needs and interoperability tools allowing users to access AVRs from anywhere. 

## Build with Warden

Warden provides operator sets and integrations with leading wallets, explorers, bridges, oracles, and more, so developers can focus on what matters most: building products.

Here is what you can do with Warden:

- **Build an application**  
[Intelligent Applications](/learn/glossary#intelligent-application) are smart contracts that allow signing transactions at any chain. An example of an Intelligent App is [SpaceWard](/learn/glossary#spaceward)—our application functioning as the front-end interface for the protocol. You can deploy EVM-compatible Intelligent Apps with Solidity or Rust & CosmWasm.

- **Build an Agent**  
Warden allows you to unleash new user experiences by integrating AI into your application, protocol, or smart contract. With the [`x/async` Warden module](/learn/warden-protocol-modules/x-async), you can create smart contracts utilizing outputs of AI models and [build onchain AI Agents](/build-an-agent/introduction) with custom logic.

- **Operate a Keychain**  
[Keychains](/learn/glossary#keychain) are custodians that generate and store keys and sign transactions. Since Keychains can sign transactions on virtually any chain, they help avoid manual crosschain coordination. You can become a Keychain operator or build a custom Keychain.

- **Run a validator node**  
You can run a [validator](/learn/glossary#validator) node and earn rewards while securing Warden’s network.

## Documentation overview

Welcome to the Warden Protocol documentation!

Use the top menu to navigate across the main sections of the docs and learn how to join Warden:

- **Learn**: The basic information about the protocol
- [Build an App](/build-an-app/introduction): Guides for application developers
- [Build an Agent](/build-an-agent/introduction): Guides for AI Agent builders
- [Build a Keychain](/build-a-keychain/introduction): Guides for Keychain operators
- [Operate a Node](/operate-a-node/introduction): Guides for node operators
- [Tokens](/tokens/introduction): A detailed overview of Warden tokens—WARD and WARP
- [SpaceWard](https://help.wardenprotocol.org): User guides for SpaceWard, our front-end Intelligent Application

## Contribute

If you're going to contribute to the protocol, see [protocol developer docs on GitHub](https://github.com/warden-protocol/wardenprotocol/tree/main/protocol-developer-docs).
