---
sidebar_position: 9
---

# Enable MetaMask Snap

## Overview

Now, with the groundbreaking **MetaMask Snap** feature, you can seamlessly integrate your test Ethereum addresses generated by the Warden Protocol directly into MetaMask Flask, ushering in a new era of convenience and accessibility - you'll be able to see those addresses tagged **Warden Protocol** in your MetaMask Flask Wallet.

## Requirements

As we're in testnet, ensure you have **MetaMask Flask** installed, the developer-centric version. Once the final version is released, it'll be available through the standard orange MetaMask extension. We'll need to be whitelisted to have it in the original MetaMask, pending security audit. 

To install MetaMask Flask, refer to the official guide: [MetaMask Flask Installation Guide](https://docs.metamask.io/snaps/get-started/install-flask/)

**Warnings:**
- Deactivate the standard orange MetaMask extension to prevent conflicts with MetaMask Flask.
- Don't store real assets or your current seed phrase on MetaMask Flask. Remember, this is a developer version.

## Integration steps

1. Connect to SpaceWard. Use any preferred wallet such as Keplr, Leap, etc.
2. Create a Space and generate a key, as shown the [Quick Start](quick-start) tutorial.
3. In the right sidebar, locate the MetaMask logo (the Orange Fox) and click **Install Snap**.
4. When your MetaMask Flask wallet opens, accept the installation prompt.
5. In the left sidebar, access the **Keys** section.
6. Select a key from the available options.
7. Click **Add to MetaMask**.
8. Confirm in your MetaMask Flask wallet.

## Result

Congratulations! You've successfully integrated your SpaceWard Keychains with MetaMask Flask. Now, you can effortlessly connect with your MetaMask Flask wallet on any of your favorite EVM dApps.

**Important Reminder:** Exercise caution and refrain from using real assets at this stage. Safety first!

## Video tutorial

<iframe width="100%" height="444" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/sTH6okVKvss?si=yTZns9n0r_3ZXdav" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>