# How does Warden Protocol work?

## Warden Protocol - Overview

Warden Protocol is a high throughput, low latency, instant finality blockchain platform for OApp developers. In monolithic blockchain architectures, all security components of an application are tightly integrated into a single, centralised unit. Due to this component bundling, a vulnerability in the system can compromise any and all applications. Contrary to monolithic end-to-end blockchain architectures, we have modularized the Warden Protocol for security, interoperability and chain abstraction.

Application developers can assemble and disassemble a set of composable modules and use standardised, chain agnostic syntax, to create a new type of user experience - OApps. Each OApp component is developed, tested, documented, and benchmarked distinctly and be used individually or in combination with other components. All components are configurable by OApp developers. Any application developer can add Warden Protocol custom modules to their existing base app to turn their application into an OApp.

Utilising Warden Protocol as a shared platform, OApp developers can tap into established infrastructure and pool resources, granting them a competitive advantage that’s lacking in standard applications. They can sidestep establishing and maintaining a validator set and relayer network, and can leverage built-in support for keychains, intents, block explorers, wallets, oracles, bridge, data indices and security monitors. This reduces development costs, accelerates deployment timelines, and permits OApp developers to concentrate on creating application specific moats, rather than duplicating tools, resources and infrastructure.