# Keychains

### Spaces

A Space lets a Warden account manage their L1 assets. A Warden Protocol account
can create a Space and manage it to add or remove other accounts, called
owners, or adjust the Spaces’ intents. A Space can also control other Spaces,
using child Spaces. This enables a hierarchical way of managing assets. A Space
has an admin- and signing intent that defines the required approvals needed to
authorize an operation. Spaces utilize an interface to the bank module to
interact with assets on Warden Protocol.

### Account Aggregation

Imagine if a gmail user could only send messages to an outlook address. Web3 is
very similar, and it’s why we introduced Spaces. These are single accounts that
Warden Protocol users can use to interact with dApps across any EVM or
Cosmos-based chain. They let users transact across networks, and navigate
between dApps all within a single interface. Spaces enable transactions on
chains with single accounts and allow a unified view of a users’ holding.

### Intent

On Warden we work with a concept called intents. An intent expresses a
preference that a user commits to a particular action. The signer of the intent
“-2.000 USDC, +1 EHT” authorizes a future state where the signer has 1 more ETH
and 2.000 less USDC. By using intents we abstract chains and complexity away
from users.

### Keychains

A Keychain is an off-chain service that provides key services to Warden
Protocol users. Upon request from the users through a Space, keychains create
and store key material locally and publish the public key information on Warden
Protocol, from which the users can request signatures for different purposes.
Warden Protocol allows users to onboard their own keychains. Having an own
keychain can be beneficial if a customer wants full control of their key
material.

### Keys

Keys allow users to derive addresses and sign transactions or other arbitrary
data. Warden Protocol exposes functions for Space owners to request keys of
various key types generated by a specified keychain.

### Wallet  

A wallet is an L1 address derived from a key. One key can be derived into
different addresses per blockchain, for instance one for Ethereum and one for
Cosmos blockchain

### Bring Your Own Keychain (BYOK)

Warden Protocol allows users or outside institutions to onboard their own
keychain.

To onboard a new Keychain, users can submit a Newkeychain transaction with a
certain payload specifying the keychain and keychain settings.

### Keychain Parties

Responses to key- and signature requests are being published to Warden Protocol
by a keychain party which represents the keychain system. The keychain parties
are being added through on-chain transactions to the keychain object on Warden
Protocol. Only the keychain parties are able to publish responses to Warden
Protocol.

### Keychain Economics

Keychain operators can directly charge a fee for key- and signature requests
that will be paid in WARD. This directly creates a revenue stream for keychain
operators to the respective keychain address. keychain admins can manage these
funds.
