---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# v0.4.0

## Overview

This guide provides steps for upgrading to the [Warden v0.4.0](https://github.com/warden-protocol/wardenprotocol/releases/tag/v0.4.0) release.

The upgrade will take place on the **1st of August 2024**.

## 1. Back up data

Prior to the upgrade, validators are encouraged to take a full data snapshot. Snapshotting depends heavily on infrastructure, but generally this can be done by backing up the `.neutrond` directory.
If you use Cosmovisor to upgrade, Cosmovisor will back up your data by default when you upgrade. See below [upgrade using cosmovisor](#method-ii-upgrade-using-cosmovisor) section.

It's critically important for validator operators to back-up the `.wardend/data/priv_validator_state.json` file after stopping the `wardend` process. This file is updated every block as your validator participates in consensus rounds. It's a critical file needed to prevent double-signing, in case the upgrade fails and the previous chain needs to be restarted.

## 2. Upgrade

There are 2 major ways to upgrade a node:

- **At first run the Slinky Sidecar binary in the same machine as neutrond** (instructions how to do it you can find [here](https://docs.skip.money/slinky/integrations/neutron/))
- Manual upgrade
- Upgrade using [Cosmovisor](https://pkg.go.dev/cosmossdk.io/tools/cosmovisor)
  - Either by manually preparing the new binary
  - Or by using the auto-download functionality

### Option 1: Upgrade manually

1. Make sure Neutron v4.0.1 is installed by either downloading a [compatible wardend binary](https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron/releases/tag/v4.0.1), or building from source. Building from source requires **Golang 1.22.x**.

2. Run Neutron v3.0.6 till upgrade height, the node will panic:
    
    ```shell
    ERR UPGRADE "v4.0.1" NEEDED at height: 12255555: upgrade to v4.0.1 and applying upgrade "v4.0.1" at     height: 12255555
    ```
    
    (?)

3. Stop the node, and switch the binary to **Neutron v4.0.1** and re-start by `neutrond start`.

4. It may take several minutes to a few hours until validators with a total sum voting power > 2/3 to complete their node upgrades. After that, the chain can continue to produce blocks.

### Option 2: Use Cosmovisor

(?)

1. Build **Warden v4.0.1** and move `wardend` v4.0.1 to `$WARDEN_HOME/cosmovisor/upgrades/v4.0.0/bin`:
    
    ```shell
    mkdir -p  $WARDEN_HOME/cosmovisor/upgrades/v4.0.0/bin
    cp $(which wardend) $WARDEN_HOME/cosmovisor/upgrades/v4.0.0/bin
    ```

    **Note**: If you wish to use auto-download, it has to be enabled in Cosmovisor. Then Cosmovisor will automatically download the `wardend` v0.4.0 binary.

2. Start the node:

    ```shell
    cosmovisor run  start --x-crisis-skip-assert-invariants --home $DAEMON_HOME
    ```
    
    **Note**: Skipping the invariant checks is strongly encouraged since it decreases the upgrade time significantly and since there are some other improvements coming to the crisis module in the next release of the Cosmos SDK.

3. When the upgrade block height is reached, Neutron will panic and stop.

4. After upgrade, the chain will continue to produce blocks when validators with a total sum voting power > 2/3 complete their node upgrades.

## Rollback plan

During the network upgrade, core Neutron team will be keeping an ever vigilant eye and communicating with operators on the status of their upgrades. During this time, the core team will listen to operator needs to determine if the upgrade is experiencing unintended challenges. In the event of unexpected challenges, the core team, after conferring with operators and attaining social consensus, may choose to declare that the upgrade will be skipped.

Steps to skip this upgrade proposal are simply to resume the neutron-1 network with the (downgraded) v3.0.6 binary using the following command:

> neutrond start --unsafe-skip-upgrade 12255555

Note: There is no particular need to restore a state snapshot prior to the upgrade height, unless specifically directed by core Neutron team.

Important: A social consensus decision to skip the upgrade will be based solely on technical merits, thereby respecting and maintaining the decentralized governance process of the upgrade proposal's successful YES vote.

## Communications

Operators are encouraged to join the `#validator-chat` [channel](https://discord.com/channels/986573321023942708/1030043854637899816) in the `HUB VALIDATOR` section of the Neutron Discord. This channel is the primary communication tool for operators to ask questions, report upgrade status, report technical issues, and to build social consensus should the need arise. This channel is restricted to known operators and requires verification beforehand. Request to join the `#validator-chat` channel by opening a ticket or asking in the `general` channel.

## Risks

As a validator performing the upgrade procedure on your consensus nodes carries a heightened risk of double-signing and being slashed. The most important piece of this procedure is verifying your software version and genesis file hash before starting your validator and signing.

The riskiest thing a validator can do is discover that they made a mistake and repeat the upgrade procedure again during the network startup. If you discover a mistake in the process, the best thing to do is wait for the network to start before correcting it.

## FAQ

1. Q: My node restarted in the middle of upgrade process (OOM killed, hardware issues, etc), is it safe to just proceed with the upgrade

   A: No. Most likely the upgrade will be completed successfully. But you get AppHash error after the network gets up. It's a lot safer to restart full process from scratch(recover the node from a backup).

   To perform an upgrade you need to keep your `./data/priv_validator_state.json` file when you are applying a snapshot from the backup.
   This will help you avoid the risk of slashing due to double signing.